Swiss psychiatrist Carl Jung noticed
that the traits we were pressing
ourselves are cast into the unconscious
the more we repress the more we
cultivate an unconscious entity called
the shadow these unwanted
characteristics may be hidden behind the
masks we wear as long as they are
repressed they will get back at us
eventually that's why it's important to
recognize our shadow and to embrace it
[Music]
philosopher Alan Watts spoke of what he
called the element of irreducible
rascality which is inherently part of
being a human we are both the good and
bad the angel and the devil the reason
and the passions all these aspects make
a complete human being unfortunately we
often deal with this rascality in an
unhealthy way by repression throughout
the ages many different ideologies
erupted that celebrated one set of
characteristics and condemned another at
first glance it seems a good thing to
banish the undesirable in an effort to
transform humanity into something more
desirable whatever that maybe we can try
hard to be purely good but the problem
with this pursuit is that it's
impossible to get rid of something
that's inherently part of us in
psychology one often speaks about
self-improvement but also about
self-acceptance and that to become
better people we should first accept
ourselves so how can we improve if we
partly repress who we are
shouldn't self-acceptance be the
acceptance of everything including our
undesirable aspects only through this
acceptance we are able to work with
these aspects and integrate them into
our daily lives that's why it's
important to embrace the fact that we
have repressed certain traits within
ourselves instead of denying their
existence not just evil traits but also
traits like creativity certain interests
or sexual preferences can end up in the
shadow most likely the repression of
those tendencies happens because the
environment considers them
unconventional and inappropriate now
humans can react to the shadow by denial
and projection these are forms of
resistance which I'll talk about
individually let's start with denial the
denial of our shadow could lead us to a
destructive path some people simply deny
that they possess negative traits or
heavily reduction eyes they're
undesirable characteristics but doing so
is basically an act of betrayal not only
to oneself but to the environment as we
tell me for example I'm aware that I've
got some pretty dark sights in me which
are hidden behind the persona
especially as a youtuber that talks
about spiritual topics I could wear the
mask of being all love and light and a
near perfect human being but then I
would be nothing more than a fraud there
is evil and me that has come out in the
past several times in ways I regret when
the shadow takes over and we commit evil
deeds we tend to blame the environment
or say I wasn't myself or in a religious
context we might put a blame on the
devil for possessing us the truth is
that nothing can erupt in us if the seed
isn't already present the more we deny
these darker sides the denser the shadow
becomes that's why and I paraphrase Alan
Watts here the goody-goodies are often
the biggest troublemakers in many cases
these are extremists waging ideological
Wars forcing their vision of
quote-unquote goodness upon others
goodness is just a construct and does
not equal you - you - consist of what we
consider as good as well as what we
consider as bad and that can only be
good when there's bad because without
bad what's the basis for calling
something in good thus being humane
means being the complete package
including all its ugliness - projection
a significant manifestation of the
shadow is called projection we recognize
in others what we repress in ourselves
this reaction is quite logical because
traits we dislike in ourselves we
automatically dislike in others we can
see a strong example of projection in
the retired Colin L Frank Fitts a
character in a movie American Beauty
spoiler alert fits expresses himself as
strongly homophobic and is devastated
when he suspects his son to have an
affair with the neighbour
a man named Lester Burnham he reacts
aggressively towards his son by beating
him up and telling him that he would
rather want him to be dead
than a homosexual later in a movie it
turns out that he has repressed his own
homosexuality his whole life and spoiler
instead of resisting the shadow we can
also do an attempt to acknowledge it so
we can integrate it into our daily lives
in a healthy way
integration of unwanted traits seems to
be odd but it's a way to mitigate their
harmful elements and to cultivate the
positive aspects that hide in the shadow
like creativity this process of
integration starts with awareness
projection for example is actually a
great opportunity to discover the things
we repress by becoming mindful of our
own reactions towards other people's
characteristics which is a direct
manifestation of the shadow thus our
projections can be a guiding light for
making the unconscious conscious I quote
if you imagine someone who is brave
enough to withdraw all these projections
then you get an individual who is
conscious of a pretty thick shadow such
a man has settled himself with new
problems and conflicts he has become a
serious problem to himself as he is now
unable to say that they do this or that
they are wrong and they must be fought
against and quote the shadow speaks to
us in many ways Carl Jung suggests that
other methods like active imagination
and dream analysis in order to make
sense out of the symbolic language in
which the unconscious tries to speak to
us again awareness is the key here the
integration of the shadow is a lifelong
process since we probably can't reveal
the shadow overnight by making the
unconscious conscious the first step
towards integration is already made we
have let go of our projections and see
what's lingering in the dark yes the
sight will be ugly but we can't work
with something that we cannot see I
quote no doubt this also sounds very
simple in reality however the acceptance
of the shadow side of human nature
verges on the impossible consider for a
moment what it means to grant the right
of existence
- what is unreasonable senseless and
evil yet it is just this that the modern
man insists upon he wants to live with
every side of himself to know what he is
and quote the shadow being part of
ourselves is like a living organism
that's always in flux and some of it has
never seen the light of the day thus
integrating it is a lifelong process
we can only illuminate parts of it and
as soon as we become aware of these
parts we can integrate or transmute them
once we expose our fears we can let them
guide us towards bravery once we see our
aggression we can channel it into
achievement once we are confronted with
our creativity we can incorporate it
into our daily lives from a Union
perspective let's not try to be the
light while simultaneously rejecting the
darkness instead let's stand between the
darkness and the light without judgment
so we can experience what it's like to
be fully human thank you for watching
[Music]
you